Q: A second grader asked me what this means: There are many known species of Bartonella, Gram-negative bacteria that can cause febrile illness and fatality in humans and animals. These pathogens are often transmitted through hematophagous arthropod vectors such as fleas and lice. Despite increasing awareness about Bartonella spp. and their zoonotic potential, as well as existing literature on Bartonella spp. in cervids, little is known about the diversity of Bartonella spp. in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and their associated keds in the southeastern US. We examined the prevalence and diversity of Bartonella spp. in an enclosed herd of white-tailed deer and their ectoparasites, deer keds (Lipoptena mazamae), in Alabama. The overall prevalence of Bartonella infection in this population of deer was 16% (10/63) and 24% (23/96) in keds associated with deer that we sampled. Three species of Bartonella were identified in both deer and their keds: Bartonella bovis, Bartonella schoenbuchensis, and Bartonella sp. 1. Additionally, Bartonella melophagi was detected in white-tailed deer but not in the sampled keds. The detection of four Bartonella species in one population of white-tailed deer, three of which have known zoonotic potential, highlights the importance of Bartonella diversity within host species.
A: Here this is, made for a 2nd grader. There are many known species of Bartonella, bacteria that can cause febrile illness and fatality in humans and animals. These pathogens are often transmitted through hematophagous arthropod vectors such as fleas and lice. Despite increasing awareness about Bartonella species and their zoonotic potential, as well as existing literature on Bartonella species in cervids, little is known about the diversity of Bartonella species in white-tailed deer.

Q: A second grader asked me what this means: Yarık Sinkhole is a vertical cave with a length of 1378 m and depth of 533 m. Its location was marked by The Anatolian Speleology Association in 2011, and expedition entries started in 2014. Yarık Sinkhole became the 12th deepest cave of Turkey. The aim of this study was to determine the bacterial profile of the Yarık Sinkhole using next generation metagenomic sequencing and to investigate whether the bacterial profile of the cave is affected by the activities of people living in this region. This study is important as the samples were collected during the first entrance of the exploration of the cave (up to 300 m). The samples were collected from depths of −80 m, −120 m and −300 m. A total of 33 OTUs (Operational Taxonomic Unit) contained 4 bacteria phyla. Only Firmicutes, Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria phyla comprised a mean abundance of more than 1% in each sample. However, 18 different species have been detected in the Yarık Sinkhole. The most predominant species are Acinetobacter lwoffii, Methylobacterium tardum, and Propionibacterium acnes. Although the sampling was done during the first exploration of the Yarık Sinkhole, the fact that the majority of bacteria found in the cave are human-associated, suggest serious impacts from people living near this cave from runoff with human and animal waste and trash.
A: Here this is, made for a 2nd grader.A very deep hole has been discovered in Turkey. The hole is very deep. It is so deep that it goes down to a depth of 533 meters. The hole is so deep that people have not yet explored it all. Scientists have found 33 different kinds of bacteria in the hole. These bacteria are different from the bacteria that live in the air and water above the hole. The bacteria in the hole come from the dirt and rock inside the hole.

Q: A second grader asked me what this means: Climate warming may affect the distribution of helminth parasites, allowing endemic species to increase in prevalence and new species to appear. We analyzed tissues from 141 ice-associated seals collected in the Alaskan Bering and Chukchi Seas during 2006–15 for internal helminth parasites and compared results with past studies. Specimens were collected from: ringed seals (Pusa hispida), bearded seals (Erignathus barbatus), spotted seals (Phoca largha), and ribbon seals (Histriophoca fasciata).Helminths were present in 94% (133/141) of the seals sampled. Nematodes were most prevalent in bearded (97%, 72/74) and spotted seals (93%, 13/14). Cestodes were most prevalent in bearded seals (82%, 61/74) and absent in ribbon seals, trematodes were only found in bearded (64%, 47/74) and ringed seals (5%, 2/44), and acanthocephalans were mostly found in ringed (61%, 27/44) and spotted seals (64%, 9/14). Although no helminths were new to the Bering-Chukchi Seas region, this study found a previously unreported host record for the lungworm Parafilaroides (Filaroides) gymnurus in a ribbon seal. We also found the lungworm Otostrongylus circumlitus in a ribbon seal and P. (F.) gymnurus in bearded seals, representing location records previously unreported from the Bering-Chukchi Seas region (although they have been reported from the Sea of Okhotsk). We found the cestode genus Pyramicocephalus in bearded seals (3%, 2/74) at a lower prevalence than was reported previously for Pyramicocephalus phocarum (44–100%) in the Bering-Chukchi Seas region. We found no species of the acanthocephalan genus Bolbosoma, although the genus was previously identified in ringed, spotted, and ribbon seals. This study yielded no new helminths and no increases in the prevalence of endemic parasites in these seal species.
A: Here this is, made for a 2nd grader: Climate warming may affect the distribution of helminth parasites, allowing endemic species to increase in prevalence and new species to appear. We analyzed tissues from 141 ice-associated seals collected in the Alaskan Bering and Chukchi Seas during 2006–15 for internal helminth parasites and compared results with past studies. Specimens were collected from: ringed seals, bearded seals, spotted seals, and ribbon seals.